Incoming livestream: So today we'll be talking about how we went from 1.8 million prompts down to just 30 alerts.
Dragos Ruiu: It's the story of how we were hunting.
Incoming livestream: Used in a user-defined agentic ecosystem.
Dragos Ruiu: I have everything else, I'm a security database.
Incoming livestream: scientist here at Salesforce. My name's Millie.
Dragos Ruiu: There's a lot of good ideas.
Incoming livestream: and I both work.
Dragos Ruiu: I should copy the list. I don't have it right now.
Incoming livestream: Cybersecurity Operations Center group as part of the broader sales force.
Dragos Ruiu: Yeah, that piece I just sent was really early. Let's dive right in.
Incoming livestream: So, we all know that we are.
Dragos Ruiu: who are now thoroughly passed.
Incoming livestream: chatbot era. So in this wild west of agents, we aren't just sending prompts and LM. We're equipping models with an.
Dragos Ruiu: Is the real program starting yet?
Incoming livestream: economy.
Incoming livestream: as normal.
Dragos Ruiu: Not yet.
Incoming livestream: box.
Dragos Ruiu: Oh, enough time.
Incoming livestream: So, prompt, enriched call to our.
Dragos Ruiu: Come on, come on, baby.
Incoming livestream: privileged system.
Dragos Ruiu: Sorry, I'm just trying to sneak a bite of food in here.
Dragos Ruiu: The main sessions haven't started yet, they're basically just idling, let me just double check for you.
Dragos Ruiu: But there's no real, rush. Oh, they're just starting on stage 1 right now.
Incoming livestream: explodes. It stops being about…
Dragos Ruiu: Really up to you guys. This Zoom is intended…
Incoming livestream: raised.
Dragos Ruiu: It's like, it's like mingling outside the doors out of the main session, in the real menu.
Incoming livestream: How many of you are either currently or in the near…
Dragos Ruiu: future.
Incoming livestream: We're defending.
Dragos Ruiu: You're kind of out there in person.
Incoming livestream: here.
Dragos Ruiu: I have the same FOMO.
Incoming livestream: Awesome. And how many of you are local?
Incoming livestream: do anomaly detection as a part of your toolbox.
Dragos Ruiu: I, I passed on.
Incoming livestream: Well, that's awesome!
Dragos Ruiu: follow Daniel's newsletter.
Incoming livestream: Alright, let's, dive in. I hope you guys find this interesting.
Dragos Ruiu: and or relevant. Yeah, he was not feeling well.
Incoming livestream: A little bit of background setting, so we're at Salesforce, we…
Dragos Ruiu: Work on something.
Incoming livestream: we called Asian Force, which is.
Dragos Ruiu: Thanks for an awesome session, Bruce.
Incoming livestream: workforce. We do have the product or the platform.
Dragos Ruiu: Unbelievable.
Incoming livestream: that are implemented both on our customer orgs and our internal Salesforce orgs. So here's a snapshot of, what we're dealing with on a daily basis in terms of scale. So now that creates a black box defense challenge, where we cannot rely on static signatures, because every agent's logic is custom.
Incoming livestream: And valid behaviors vary wildly between what we see here on our 55,000 organizations that we monitor on a daily basis. So what we needed was a defense that could scale up to these 12,000
Incoming livestream: unique daily activities.
Dragos Ruiu: Thank you.
Incoming livestream: Agents without having to manually tune for each one of them.
Incoming livestream: And I want to set a stage for the scope of the problem we're walking you through today.
Incoming livestream: We now here have a trust challenge, where we cannot look at, let alone train on your prompt data, because that's our customer data, your data.
Incoming livestream: But what we're trying to do here is to protect customers, and ourselves, for that matter, actually, from the actions invoked from the output of the LLMs that are generated from your prompt data.
Incoming livestream: Now, how do we do that? We build defenses at the execution layer, which sits outside of, but works hand-in-hand with the reasoning layer of these agentic systems.
Incoming livestream: So that brings me to our third model, just really quickly, because I'm sure you guys have, like, seen some version of this. This is our lens of looking at this. So when we're dealing with autonomous agents in this multi-tenant SaaS environment.
Incoming livestream: We look at our threat landscapes in two buckets, essentially. Bucket one, your platform target attacks. So this involves attackers finding cracks in your implementation of this
Incoming livestream: platform. So maybe that's a misconfigured permission set, or a flaw in the custom APEX skills are exposed to the reasoning engine. And then we have bucket two, which we call abuse of a legitimate agency. So these are threat actors using the agent's legitimate built-in capabilities to perform actions that are valid.
Incoming livestream: But malicious in context.
Incoming livestream: The bottom line here is, we aren't just defending against bad words here, we're defending a massive multi-tenant execution engine, where your legitimate logic is constantly evolving.
Incoming livestream: A little bit on agent force. We do have a set of guardrails, which we call the trust layer. Not going to go into details, but you've seen this across industry. Pretty common to have this content moderation layer that focuses on the reasoning layer, right? So that's your dialogue between the user and the LLM. Well, that is critical for filtering and screening for things like toxicity and prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: The content moderation alone is not enough.
Incoming livestream: For the following reasons.
Incoming livestream: First, what we touched upon a little bit earlier, is reasoning versus execution. So while you do have the content moderation layer that polices the reasoning layer, which is your thought process, the… it cannot see the actual execution layer, right? So that's the actual system calls.
Incoming livestream: You also need guardrails that police the specific actions and invocations triggered by the agent.
Incoming livestream: And then we also have the blocking dilemma. Because your content moderation layer often captures malicious intent, but lacks the high-fidelity signal required to do things like automated inline blocking.
Incoming livestream: and an enterprise context. So what we develop here, this detection model, provides the behavioral context necessary to move from
Incoming livestream: just flagging to confident, automated response. And then lastly, we have what we call the post-generation blindness. So, even if, in a scenario where your prompt is deemed as safe.
Incoming livestream: The resulting authentic plan might involve an authorized data access, or privilege isolation that traditional content filters just cannot observe, hence act on.
Incoming livestream: So with that, we walk through the challenges. What do we do, and how do we deal with that? I'll hand it off to Matt, and he'll walk you through our solution for that. Yeah, so now that we have this Agentic ecosystem in place, building detections around it really comes down to.
Incoming livestream: how do you go about detecting anomalies? And historically, I think detection engineers have looked to anomaly detection as a pretty big part of the toolkit, but typically at the user level or around specific tables or entities.
Incoming livestream: One of the things that I really want to highlight is changing in the GenAI era here, is that
Incoming livestream: We no longer have to just be constrained to the user level. You can actually also consider the context of the agent itself as a new access for anomaly detection. Especially when you do this in the context of the organization that's building and deploying those agents.
Incoming livestream: You essentially end up with 3 levels of context that you could use for anomaly detection. If you have a data science background, this lends itself extremely well to something called an ensemble model.
Incoming livestream: Where you can start to really pair these different levels of context together, to minimize noise. I think anyone that's done anomaly detection knows that it can be very noisy, especially if kind of deployed quickly. So, combining these three streams together, and then using them to kind of reduce noise across
Incoming livestream: Sorry, across all three, really helps make this a meaningful and impactful model.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so, we started by trying to quantify intent, and we did that with a simple and well-scoped hypothesis, which was just that looking for agents accessing things that they normally don't would be a good way to find anomalies in the ecosystem.
Incoming livestream: When we had that hypothesis in place, we then started to look at what features could we actually put in place to measure
Incoming livestream: those kinds of anomalies. So, we started looking at how frequently were Agentic sessions accessing data? What types of access were they doing? Are… are the agents just selecting data? Are they updating it? Are they deleting it? Can we build filters or features around that?
Incoming livestream: And so by keeping those feature sets simple, and the hypothesis simple, we started being able to investigate where does our coverage work versus where does it not work.
Incoming livestream: We started to find out, what are the legitimate edge cases, what are the issues with what we're measuring, is it effective or is it not?
Incoming livestream: I want to talk through some of the features that we did look at that were pretty essential to how the model operated. So we really tried to consider data access from both kind of a depth standpoint and a breadth standpoint.
Incoming livestream: We were looking at things like the frequency of calls to our databases, what proportion of data was actually being accessed by these agents, which gives you a good standpoint of depth, especially if you…
Incoming livestream: are looking for data exfiltration. Is somebody pulling the entire database? Are they just accessing one customer's records? Really trying to understand, kind of, those ratios was pretty key for us.
Incoming livestream: Another good thing that we looked at was we started to quantify the sensitivity or the rarity of the data being accessed, so…
Incoming livestream: in the Salesforce database as you are kind of building these out.
Incoming livestream: We have, feature flags for things like fields that might contain PII or sensitive data. We also try and do profiling to understand how frequently are agents touching certain columns or fields, and really understand what data is being accessed, how frequently, those kind of help to build out the features.
Incoming livestream: So, as you kind of combine these things, we really looked to incremental historical profiling. So, every day, we would actually build a profile of all of the sessions that had occurred in a given day.
Incoming livestream: This let us quickly assemble a historical context and a baseline, and then we were able to quickly identify anything that was actually out of character based on the historical baseline, so…
Incoming livestream: As we continued to aggregate kind of a rolling history, it was really easy to look at standard deviations or anomalies kind of from that historical baseline.
Incoming livestream: One of the benefits of this is that as new sessions occurred, we could really score them quickly after the session occurred, or even as it was ongoing, to identify our outliers and proactively respond. This kind of deviation-based or standard deviation-based scoring also helps kind of build alert prioritization into the system as well.
Incoming livestream: I want to also cover some of the things that didn't work for us, and again, this is one of the major downsides to consider when building these ensemble models, is if you start to consider features across these multiple layers of identity, the number of features that you're going to be building into your models will explode very quickly, so…
Incoming livestream: Every new data rarity or data frequency feature that you add, if you were looking at it in the context of the user, the agent, the org, you're building out multiple layers of these features, and it can create noise and complexity very quickly.
Incoming livestream: I do also want to call out one of the things we built that didn't work, which was… we built a pretty large, query complexity calculator early on. It was custom-built, it took a lot of code. One of the…
Incoming livestream: reasons that it didn't work for us, was just that it kind of confused layers of identity, so…
Incoming livestream: We thought that malicious actors would essentially be looking to run these complicated queries, or that it would be a good way to identify anomalous queries. What we were finding was that the agents themselves were constructing the queries, so, just make sure that your features are measuring what you think they are measuring. It's a good way to find the edge cases that are important here.
Incoming livestream: We also found a pain point in…
Incoming livestream: joining data in from multiple tables, so we had to reach out to get, contextual information from metadata tables around the queries being executed. This built in a number of really expensive computational joins for us, so…
Incoming livestream: Later on, we were able to actually refactor the model to
Incoming livestream: Essentially operate on just one table, remove the expensive joins, and have the bottle train in a third of the time.
Incoming livestream: At the end of the day, the results, speak for themselves. We had nearly 2 million daily prompts.
Incoming livestream: Which we were able to filter down slightly through the trust layer, but through the behavioral anomaly detection model, at the end of the day, we had fewer than 30 active alerts that needed investigation.
Incoming livestream: One of the things that we also did is we tried to lean into an agentic paradigm, where we now expect that agents are also going to be involved in the investigation and triage of the alerts.
Incoming livestream: So, what you see on screen here is an actual example of an alert, but…
Incoming livestream: What we're doing is creating a structured JSON payload that is then ingested by an additional agent that helps make sense of that payload.
Incoming livestream: And so, the agent is able to very quickly take the features that we provided and synthesize a summary of why the alert is anomalous. Typically in plain English, and one of the advantages of that is it's very customer-facing, very friendly. We don't necessarily have to assume that the investigator has a security background.
Incoming livestream: Thank you, Matt. So, we talked about, the state of the world that we've built this, tool into. Let's talk a little bit about the road ahead.
Incoming livestream: So the ultimate goal for really any security practitioner is moving from knowing what happened yesterday to stopping what is happening now.
Incoming livestream: So in our current pilot, version of this model, we accept a 12 to 24 hour detection latency, as both the training and inference pieces are running in batch jobs.
Incoming livestream: However, our architecture is built for the hot path, so by taking the behavioral baseline we learned during our daily batch processing, and eventually pushing them to a high-speed cache, we could eventually perform the inference piece in flight.
Incoming livestream: So if a session hits our critical threshold, meaning it's essentially statistically impossible for this to be normal behavior, we don't wait for SOC analysts to triage the alert.
Incoming livestream: or, notify the customer hours, or sometimes days later, we move to auto-containment. We can kill the session, revoke the token, or trigger a bot-level lockdown immediately. This is how we'll eventually close the loop at the execution layer of an agentic system.
Incoming livestream: Let's talk about some of the lessons we learned along the way. First one, our major hurdle was the observability gap. So in the beginning, we had these engineering logs that told us what happened, but the security telemetry didn't really tell us who or which agent was responsible for what in a way that supported what we wanted to do, which was high-fidelity detection. So your mission here really is what we call identity multitasking.
Incoming livestream: You have to partner with your engineering and product teams early on to ensure that your authentic logs aren't just debug strings, they need to be structured events that link the invoking user ID to the agent ID. Because without this context, you're blind to the, abuse of a legitimate agency case, where
Incoming livestream: You just cannot distinguish between what a power user is and what a compromised agent might look like.
Incoming livestream: Secondly, don't wait for a known attack to build your defense. So, in the environment we operate in, where there's 12,000 plus unique daily active agents.
Incoming livestream: A signature-based approach is essentially just a black box failure. You need to start profiling what normal looks like today, especially for, as a rarity, features like those that Matt has just walked you through. So then you have the statistical mean
Incoming livestream: Ready when the deviation does occur, and then you can act on it immediately.
Incoming livestream: Lesson number 3. Practitioners, ourselves included, often fall into the trap of building the perfect feature.
Incoming livestream: We spent a significant amount of time and resources on this so-called parser and query complexity model that ultimately just introduced too much complexity and latency for what we eventually wanted to do, which is near time or real-time action. We found that simple telemetry, like
Incoming livestream: invocation count or sensitive asset frequency, produced way higher fidelity signals without having to blow up our SLAs.
Incoming livestream: And finally, remember that your funnel is only as good as your baseline. Do expect noise for the first 14 days of a new agent's life. Build that warm-up period into your SOX playbook so you don't burn out your analysts on day one.
Incoming livestream: And with that, it's a wrap. We will open up to questions. Thank you so much for being here.
Incoming livestream: This is great work, Millie and Matt. So, I have…
Incoming livestream: 100 questions, I'm only gonna ask one. The curse of dimensionality, how did you get over all of this over-engineering, the features and all that? Can you give us some more details? Yeah, so I think for me, the main thing was to kind of just start with a pretty open canvas and be able to brainstorm.
Incoming livestream: I kind of took some inspiration from something like PCA, where it was, like, really just, how can we actually look at which features are contributing the most signal?
Incoming livestream: So we had several rounds of kind of creating features, running some analysis on how predictive were they actually in predicting abuse, and then we used that to kind of cull the feature set down to the most minimal set that we could that would actually have the predictive power that we needed. But, yeah.
Incoming livestream: And I can go into, like, a just tiny little bit of implementation detail. So, you could actually think of this as, like, hyperparameter tuning in, like, a traditional ML model, right? Like…
Incoming livestream: given that this is the set of features, this is what the outcome looks like. You can essentially run a simulation, and you can map that out, and you can actually tune your detection logic and the resulting detection volume output that way. So, like…
Incoming livestream: We actually built this kind of programmatically, too, so there's a lot of, like, kind of feedback loop
Incoming livestream: architecture or design you can leverage here, just, you know, like, traditionally how we did, like, ML already.
Incoming livestream: Two questions about, how about, like, so the final output of a set of 50-odd, whatever.
Incoming livestream: Were you guys also… have you guys also thought about, like, some sort of, like, confidence score on those alerts? And how about, like, annotation piece as well, to say, hey, whether this was right or wrong, for it to act as a feedback loop?
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so I think, one of the things is, again, we use that deviation-based scoring, so for every axis that we're actually looking at, we get some indication, similar to a confidence interval, of just how far out of character is this for the normal user's behavior, so…
Incoming livestream: you know, maybe a support agent shouldn't be pulling the entire database, it would be extremely out of character. So that gives some…
Incoming livestream: telling of confidence. I think we're still kind of working to tune that a little bit better as we proceed. And then we're continuing to work with some, teams internally to kind of work on scoring the alerts that we have now, but yeah.
Incoming livestream: Hey, awesome presentation. I really loved, also, the slides on, the auto-containment, like, ideas and, the explanations that you're given to SOC analysts just make it easy to reproduce.
Incoming livestream: What are you hearing from the instant responders, the SOC analysts on…
Incoming livestream: the signals that they're receiving, and then what they want to actually do about it. I'm really curious about this auto-containment that might happen in the future with AI agents, and then what actions they might want to take. Like, what are you hearing from them? Yeah, I can speak to that. So…
Incoming livestream: So that's a multi-layered question. Well, first of all, like, our first stab at, like.
Incoming livestream: how do you make the result, one, more human-readable and interpretable? Because we always see in ML, there's this trade-off, intrinsic trade-off, between your accuracy and interpretability. Our first step at that, well, twofold. One is we…
Incoming livestream: specifically designed the algorithm to be simple, to be able to trade out for that interpretability. So you have to remember, in, like, an enterprise SaaS kind of contact, we talk about Salesforce, we give this alert to customers, or we give this alert to a SOC analyst. They need to be able to actually understand it, and then be able to act on it.
Incoming livestream: So our first design choice was choose a pretty simple distance-based algorithm. Number two, this slide that we went through, where we give you a sample alert, using, essentially using LLM to help you interpret, the result. That's, like, our second step at making this more human-readable and more actionable, and what you might want to do with this. So that's the first layer of just making the alert itself.
Incoming livestream: useful. Now, moving to the inline, or blocking, or auto-containment, that's…
Incoming livestream: Extremely hard for problem space, because you're talking about…
Incoming livestream: you're basically letting your algorithm not only make decisions for the user, but also act on their behalf. So our approach to that
Incoming livestream: the model just pilot releasing to customers this month, actually. But our approach is we're having a purple team exercise, where we have a red team, essentially generating that, and we're gonna have the model catch it in the wild, and then that's how we're gonna be tuning efficiency.